task: initial commit adding DESIGN.md and job.proto (JobWorker service) (#1)
bucknercd/jobworker: DESIGN.md

- Same command denylist for admin users and will run as `1000:1000` user
- Job isolation via cgroups and user/group based access control
- Job metadata management (in memory only for now)
- Job ID generation (unique, lexicographically sortable)
- Logging 

### Excluded
  (Due to time constraints)
- Horizontal scalability. I will only implement this in one instance of compute.
- Availability (multiple instances of compute) - This is a single source of failure. If the server goes down, the service goes down or if the server is overloaded, cli experience will suffer.
- Containerization of compute (ie Kubernetes). Using kubernetes is a clean way to implement distributed compute. 
- Persistent storage of client CAs in a database like sqlite
- Configuration - Will use hardcoding as much as possible for very simple configurations server/client  port, limits, denylist and anything else that could come up.
- DDOS Prevention. No rate limiting middleware will be implemented

---

## Security Considerations

- **mTLS** for mutual authentication and transport encryption
  - TLS 1.3 only
  - Strong cipher suite (TLS\_AES\_256\_GCM\_SHA384 preferred)
- **Authorization policy**

>   - In the client certificate itself, `CN` will be the `username` and `O` will be the `role-group`

Reviewer: After reading through this a couple times I'm still not totally clear on the authorization model. Maybe having both roles _and_ user groups is more complicated than what we need here? I'd welcome any opportunity to simplify.

Author: Yes. I will simplify the AuthZ scheme so that `CN` will be for username. Each individual `user` will **only** be able to interact with their jobs. All processes will run in chroot jail as `nobody` and I will get rid of the denylist entirely.

- **Shell invocation**
  - Avoids shell injection; executes directly with a `exec` style syscall. No shelling out will be permitted. Shell executables will be on the denylist.
- **Job isolation**
  - Cgroups used for resource control (custom implementation)
  - Each job gets its own cgroup directory
  - **Only** users that belong to the same group as the group that created the job id will be able to obtain any data at all from the said job.
- **DDOS**
  - I will not implement a rate limiting middleware but am aware one would be beneficial to have. This would prevent resource exhaustion. For example, making many connections and just leaving all of them open by starting a TCP handshake but never closing it.
- **Secure Commands Denylist**
  - Admin users will be restricted from running certain destructive commands (e.g., `rm`, `mv`, `dd`, etc.) to prevent system damage as well as some simple privilege escalation commands. Normal users will be limited with the same denylist as well.
- **Logging**
  - The server will maintain logs to disk to keep track of all events and to see who has tried to do what to be able to have visibility 
---

## CLI Examples
### Streaming Note

> - All the `stream` commands have `tail` like functionality. This means that if the job is still running, the stream will continue to follow the output in real-time. If the job has exited, the stdout and stderr file descriptors will be closed and the stream will end.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `stream` command has `tail` like functionality. This means that if the job is still running, the stream will continue to follow the output in real-time. If the job has exited, the stdout and stderr file descriptors will be closed and the stream will end.
```

Author: Will fix

### Limits Default
- If no limits are specified, the job will run with default cgroup limits:
  - CPU: 500m (500 milli-cores)
  - Memory: 100M
  - I/O: low
```bash
# Start a job

> jobctl start --cmd "ls / -lah"

Reviewer: By putting the command and its arguments into a single string like this, your program becomes responsible for parsing the string into a command and a set of arguments.

This is not necessarily bad, but feels like unnecessary complexity. We're basically asking the user to go out of their way to make sure the shell _doesn't_ do this parsing (by quoting the whole string) and then doing it ourselves.

Any opportunity to simplify?

Author: I can have the user invoke like so: `jobctl start ls / -lah`

- No more wrapping everything in quotes and no more `--cmd`
-  Makes user's experience nicer.
- The command + args will still be treated as one string. Its just that index 0 will be `command` and the rest will be args. Not very much parsing. Very straightforward. 
- All the limit flags will be optional and explicit (ie. --cpu=500m --memory=1G --io=med)
-  This can be accomplished via Cobra

This should simplify. I will implement. Please let me know if that is ok.

Reviewer: Sounds good

# Start a job with resource limits
jobctl start \
  --cmd="echo hello world" \
  --cpu=500m \
  --mem=100M \
  --io=low

# Stream the output (stdout)

> jobctl stream --id=xxxxxxxx

Reviewer: If `--id` is always required, do we even need a flag for it? (Same question applies to `--cmd` in the `start` subcommand.)

Author: Will make `--id` required and thus no need to have a flag for it.

    "exit_code": 0
  }
  ```

- Statuses
```bash
    StatusUnknown
    StatusRunning
    StatusExited
    StatusStopped
    StatusFailed
```
- Server Config
### Note: These will be hardcoded for simplicity but would normally be in a config file or env vars
```bash
    # streaming output
    streamOutputChunkSizeKB = 32

    # general
    jobsLocation = `/var/lib/jobs`
    safePATH = `/usr/bin:/bin`
    port = `50051`
```
- Job ID
  - 16 character length alphanumeric ascii string.
  - First `6`: fixed-width base36 Unix timestamp (left-padded with 0; if ever longer, use the rightmost 6).
  - Lexicographically sortable
  - Last `10`: `crypto-random` [a-z0-9]
  - Total of 36^10 (3.66 trillion) combinations for the random part
  - This protects against collisions
```go
const letters = "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz0123456789"

func generateID() string {
    t := strconv.FormatInt(time.Now().Unix(), 36)
    if len(t) < 6 {
        t = strings.Repeat("0", 6-len(t)) + t
    } else if len(t) > 6 {
        t = t[len(t)-6:] // keep rightmost 6 if it ever grows
    }
    return t + randomString(10)
}

func randomString(n int) string {
    var sb strings.Builder
    for i := 0; i < n; i++ {

>         num, _ := rand.Int(rand.Reader, big.NewInt(int64(len(letters))))

Reviewer: Do we need big integers here? Why not `rand.Intn`?

Author: will use UUIDv7

-  `Replay`: A client will be able to stream any output of a job even after the job has exited. (**joblib**)

##### StreamOutput Requirements
- Clients stream from the **beginning of the output**
- Support **multiple clients** connecting at different times.
- Avoid race conditions when jobs are writing and clients are reading.
- Designed for **CLI usage** via a single `StreamOutput` gRPC call.

### 2. `joblib` (Core Library)

| Function             | Description                                             |
| -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------- |
| `Start()`            | Starts a process via setpgid(), takes in an executable and args. Sets job status, cgroup limits and executes the process. See **Start** for details.  It also sets up the process' stdout and stderr and to be read from and written to files on disk. These file names should map up to the job id assigned and also on disk as well. Then wait for job to finish, or be terminated, get its exit status and set it job status as well.

> | `Stop()`             | Sends `SIGTERM` to the process group for as an initial try. If the process (or children) is still running after the timeout, it writes `1` to `/sys/fs/cgroup/jobs/<jobid>/cgroup.kill` to forcefully terminate it and remove the cgroup.

Reviewer: Feel free to skip straight to `cgroup.kill` in order to simplify the implementation.

Author: will remove the sending of the `SIGTERM` signal.

| `Status()`           | Return the job status response 
| `GetStatusResponse()`| Returns a structured status response with job ID, current state (running, exited, etc.), and exit code (if available). Used by both CLI and gRPC server.

#### Details

##### Start (Launching an actual process)
- The `Start()` function will take in a command and its arguments, along with resource limits. It will then:
  - Generate a unique job ID
  - Create a cgroup for the job and apply resource limits

>   - Create a new process using `syscall.ForkExec()` with the following attributes:

Reviewer: This seems lower-level than necessary. The syscall package docs even say:

>  The primary use of syscall is inside other packages that provide a more portable interface to the system, such as "os", "time" and "net". Use those packages rather than this one if you can. 

Can we use `os/exec` instead?

Author: Will use `os/exec.Cmd` instead so its more portable and a init binary for launching the actual process.

Author: ~~As stated above, I can't put a process directly into a `cgroup` unless I use a `SYS_CLONE3` system call which I can't do via `os/exec` at the moment.  If the `cgroup` race condition window wasn't an issue then I could. I researched some and even the go implementations like `containerd`  have this same issue. There is a moment between `fork` and `exec` where the `pid` is being moved into the `cgroup` that is an attack window. The Linux kernel 5.7+  the `clone` syscall now how `CLONE_INTO_CGROUP` as to resolve this issue.  The will remove the window completely but complicates the code and makes it low level.~~

Update: I will use os/exec.Cmd with Go1.21+ . Doc will reflect details

    - `ProcAttr.Env` = `[]string{safePATH}` (set a safe PATH for the job)
    - `SysProcAttr.Setpgid` = true (start as its own process group leader).
    - `SysProcAttr.Pdeathsig` = SIGKILL (if the supervisor dies, the child is killed).
    - `SysProcAttr.Credential` = {Uid,Gid} set to `nobody` for normal users or `1000:1000` for `admin`.
    - Set up stdout and stderr to write to `/var/lib/jobs/<jobid>/stdout.log` and `/var/lib/jobs/<jobid>/stderr.log`
      - ProcAttr.Files = []uintptr{stdinFD, stdoutFD, stderrFD} mapping FD 0/1/2 to:
        - stdin: `/dev/null`
        - stdout: `<jobdir>/stdout.log`
        - stderr: `<jobdir>/stderr.log`

>   - Immediately move the process to the cgroup by writing its PID to `/sys/fs/cgroup/jobs/<jobid>/cgroup.procs`

Reviewer: This means there will be a non-zero amount of time where the process is running but is not yet in the cgroup.

Any concerns about that approach?

Author: Ok. Understood. By setting up the process for running using low level fork + exec , I had lowered the window of opportunity for cgroup races. (Plus not as portable) I see the goal now. Not a very slim window; **no** window. 

I’m switching over to `os/exec.Cmd` instead of `syscall.ForkExec()`.
We still get all the knobs we care about in SysProcAttr (Setpgid, Pdeathsig, Credential, etc.).

For the cgroup timing issue, I’m gonna run everything through a tiny init helper binary.
That init process will:
- Drop itself into the right cgroup before doing anything else.
- `exec` the real target, so the user’s process starts inside the cgroup from the very first instruction.
- This keeps our control over the process, closes the `process is running before it’s in the cgroup` window

I will update DESIGN.md

Author: ~~As stated above, I can't put a process directly into a `cgroup` unless I use a `SYS_CLONE3` system call which I can't do via `os/exec` at the moment.  If the `cgroup` race condition window wasn't an issue then I could. I researched some and even the go implementations like `containerd`  have this same issue. There is a moment between `fork` and `exec` where the `pid` is being moved into the `cgroup` that is an attack window. The Linux kernel 5.7+  the `clone` syscall now how `CLONE_INTO_CGROUP` as to resolve this issue.  The will remove the window completely but complicates the code and makes it low level.~~

Update: I will use os/exec.Cmd with Go1.21+ . Doc will reflect details

@zmb3

    // not shown here for brevity
```

##### Security note about Start()
- The **only** environment variable that will be set is `PATH` to a safe value. This is to prevent any potential PATH injection attacks. The `PATH` will be set to a safe value like `/usr/bin:/bin` or similar.

#### Key Subcomponents: (other potential packages)
- `devinfo`: A helper to provide device info. Like what /dev to set the IO cgroup limits on. This will be determined by grabbing the device where the root (/) dir is mounted.  (ie. /dev/sda might be 8:0)
- `cgroups`: Actually creates and deletes cgroups v2 limits (implementation described below)
- `resources`: A helper package to abstract away all the many low level resource requirements (TBD if needed)

#### Cgroups

##### Notes
- Cgroups v2 will be used. Kernel version 5.2+ is required for this functionality
- Upon job termination the Job Controller via `joblib` will cleanup the cgroup files

#### Details
1. Create a custom cgroup directory `/sys/fs/cgroup/jobs/<jobid>`
  - Create `/sys/fs/cgroup/jobs` if it doesnt exist yet
2. Inside  `<jobid>` directory:
  - set `memory.max` in bytes (one token)

>   - set `cpu.max` to "<quota> <period>" where they are in microseconds. (2 tokens)

Reviewer: How are you going to get `<quota>` and `<period>` if the user provided a single string like `500m`?

Author: If `--cpu` is set to `500m` then in cgroups v2 then it would be set as so `cpu.max = 50000 100000`  for `quota` and `period` respectively. I am going to hardcode `period` and adjust `quota` based on the CLI `cpu` flag.

I will add a mapping to DESIGN.md

    - cpu.max is written as "<quota> <period>" in microseconds. Typical period is 100000µs (100ms), and quota ≤ period.

>   - set `io.max` to "<device> <rbps> <wbps>" (3 tokens). An example: `8:0 rbps=1048576 wbps=1048576`

Reviewer: Similarly, how will the low/med/high class from your proto map to `rbps` and `wbps`?

Author: `low`, `med` and `high` will be mapped to `1M`, `10M`, `0`(unlimited) respectively for both `rpbs` and `wbps`. I will determine the device which is on the root partition and use that in `io.max`.

I will add a mapping to DESIGN.md.

    - Note: The major(8) and minor(0) will try to be determined based on device where the root(/) directory is mounted on.
3. Immediately after `ForkExec` returns (in the parent), write the child PID to `/sys/fs/cgroup/jobs/<jobid>/cgroup.procs`.
4. When the process exits, delete the cgroup directory `/sys/fs/cgroup/jobs/<jobid>`.

> 5. If the process is still running, write `1` to `/sys/fs/cgroup/jobs/<jobid>/cgroup.kill` to forcefully kill the process and remove the cgroup.

Reviewer: Maybe I'm just confused by the order in which this is written, but if you've deleted the cgroup directory in step 4 there won't be anything to write here.

Author: This is a logical error in the documentation. I will correct since yes it doesn't make sense this way since the cgroup directory would be deleted.

I will fix.

> ### 3. `server` (gRPC API)

Reviewer: I'd love to see what the Go API looks like at the library level, too.

Author: Understood. I will a simple example of how to use the joblib directly (not via the manager package which would wrap around it)

Something like:

```
import manager

m := manager.NewJobManager(...)
jobID, err := m.StartJob([]string{"/bin/sleep", "5"}, joblib.ResourceLimits{CPU: "500m"})
status, _ := m.GetStatus(jobID)
stream, _ := m.StreamOutput(jobID, false)
m.StopJob(jobID)
```

@zmb3

> ### 3. `server` (gRPC API)

Reviewer: This section doesn't provide much value IMO. You've already discussed mTLS in other parts of the document, the gRPC API is covered in the protobuf spec, and authn/z has its own dedicated section too.

Author: Will remove.

- Implements:
  - `StartJob` (takes command, resource limits)
  - `StopJob`
  - `GetStatus`
  - `StreamOutput` (streaming gRPC)
- Secures:

>   - mTLS setup using TLS 1.3

Reviewer: How will the server know which client certificates to trust?

Similarly, how will the CLI client know which client certificate to use?

Author: I will have a script to autogenerate certs for clients based on their own input. They all chain up to one `CA`. If the client cert chains up to the `CA`, then its trusted by the server.

The CLI client will use the client cert in its own generated directory with its private key as well. So a mechanism for starting up a client must be implemented. For testing purposes could be hardcoded but a tiny client config could help as well that could indicate the username.

  - authorization done via CA. O=admin|user

### 4. `CLI` (JobCtl)

- Command line interface using [`spf13/cobra`](https://github.com/spf13/cobra)
- gRPC TLS client with `x509` cert loading
- Usage is listed above
- On `StreamOutput`, the CLI will read and when the end of the stream is reached, it will stop reading and exit. If the job is still running, it will continue to read in real-time until the job exits or the user interrupts the stream.

### 5. AuthN/Z
- The client must authenticate the server **and** the server must authenticate the client. This means that the client **and** the server must trust each other via CA's. For simplicity, the server will have the client's CA's when running.
- `CN` will be used for `<username>`

> - `O` will be used for `<role>-<group>`

Reviewer: Up above you said

> authorization done via CA. O=admin|user

This seems to contradict with the `<role-group>` notation mentioned here.

Author: Will fix. Going with CN=username. Will no longer use role.

- Process streaming or getting statuses, reading, will be limited to members of any said group. This will be for isolation purposes.
- Depending on the `role` (admin|user) , the running of particular commands will be limited.

#### NOTE: All lists will be hardcoded in the implementation

> ### Denylist for `admin` users and normal users

Reviewer: I'd consider alternate approaches. Allow/deny lists are really easy to circumvent - there's just too many corner cases.

For example: `ln /bin/bash /home/me/myunrestrictedshell` or `apt install some-shell-thats-not-on-thelist` and then the deny list is completely ineffective from there.

Author: Ok. An alternative approach would be to use process isolation via chroot for launching the process.  This way the attack surface will be reduced greatly. On a similar note, I will drop permissions to nobody for all users and simplify the RBAC scheme.

| `Start()`            | Generates job id, sets a up cgroup, launches an init binary which moves its `pid` into the `cgroup` and uses  replacing itself with the actual target command and args. Then it waits for process to finish, or be terminated, get its exit status and set it job status as well.
| `Stop()`             | Has cgroup library write `1` to `/sys/fs/cgroup/jobs/<jobid>/cgroup.kill` to forcefully terminate and remove the cgroup.
| `Status()`           | Return the job status response 
| `GetStatusResponse()`| Returns a structured status response with job ID, current state (running, exited, etc.), and exit code (if available). Used by both CLI and gRPC server.

#### Details

##### Start (Launching an actual process)
- The `Start()` function will take in a command and its arguments, along with resource limits. It will then:

1. **Set Up Cgroup** – Create the job’s cgroup and apply resource limits.

2. **Setup and Launch Init Binary**
  - Use exec.Command to setup/start a small `init` helper binary 
```go
//Supervisor (parent process)
//Just starts the wrapper and handles logging; no sandboxing here because the wrapper will do it.

> cmd := exec.Command("/usr/local/bin/init-wrapper", append([]string{jobId, targetCmd}, args...)...)

Reviewer 2: I think that the use of `/usr/local/bin/init-wrapper` would be in violation of the challenge requirements. Per the challenge spec:

> The server should also not rely on any shell scripts, external binaries or use containers to execute jobs.

Author: ~~Understood. I finally found out how to have **zero** window. I would have to use a `clone()` syscall with `CLONE_INTO_CGROUP`.   It will require kernel version 5.7+  though.~~

~~Summary
As stated above, I can't put a process directly into a cgroup unless I use a `clone3()` syscall which I can't do via `os/exec` at the moment. If the `cgroup` race condition window wasn't an issue then I could. I researched some and even the go implementations like `containerd` have this same issue. They support kernel versions < 5.7. There is a moment between fork and exec where the `pid` is being moved into the `cgroup` that is an attack window. In the Linux kernel 5.7+ the `clone3` syscall using `CLONE_INTO_CGROUP` now resolves this issue. That will remove the window completely but complicates the code and makes it low level.~~

 Update: I will use os/exec.Cmd with Go1.21+ . Doc will reflect details

@rosstimothy

- Support **multiple clients** connecting at different times.
- Avoid race conditions when jobs are writing and clients are reading.
- Designed for **CLI usage** via a single `StreamOutput` gRPC call.

#### Example Manager API Usage
```go
package main
import (
    "github.com/buckercd/jobworker/joblib/manager"
)

func main() {
	m := manager.NewJobManager(...)
	jobID, err := m.StartJob([]string{"/bin/sleep", "5"}, joblib.ResourceLimits{CPU: "500m"})
	status, _ := m.GetStatus(jobID)
	stream, _ := m.StreamOutput(jobID, false)
	m.StopJob(jobID)
}
```

### 2. `joblib` (Core Library)

| Function             | Description                                             |
| -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------- |
| `Start()`            | Creates a cgroup via `cgroup` library, sets up the command with resource limits, and starts the process in a chroot jail. It will also handle logging to stdout/stderr files. The function will return a job ID.
| `Stop()`             | Has cgroup library write `1` to `/sys/fs/cgroup/jobs/<jobid>/cgroup.kill` to forcefully terminate and then remove the cgroup.
| `Status()`           | Return the job status response 

> | `GetStatusResponse()`| Returns a structured status response with job ID, current state (running, exited, etc.), and exit code (if available). Used by both CLI and gRPC server.

Reviewer 2: Are both Status and GetStatusResponse needed? What is the difference between the two?

Author: One is pure status for the manager to use and the other is just **all** response statuses in one. The pure `status()` is redundant. I will fix this when implementing. I will delete this from design doc

#### Notes
- `Go 1.21+` is required for `UseCgroupFD` functionality
- `CLONE_INTO_CGROUP` is required for the `UseCgroupFD` to work properly. (zero time a process runs outside of the cgroup)
- `Linux Kernel 5.7+` is required for this functionality
- No need to write a `pid` to `/sys/fs/cgroup/jobs/<jobid>/cgroup.procs` as `UseCgroupFD` will handle this automatically

#### Details

##### Start (Launching an actual process)
- The `Start()` function will take in a command and its arguments, along with resource limits. It will then:

1. **Set Cgroup**
  - Create a `cgroup` via `cgroup` library with the provided limits.
  - Get a file descriptor for the cgroup directory

2. **Build the Command**
    - Open log files for stdout and stderr

>     - Build the command using `exec.Command` with the provided command and arguments using a safe `PATH` environment variable

Reviewer 2: No need to worry about PATH or other environment variables. Feel free to omit to simplify and reduce scope.

Author: Ok. thats good to know. I wont worry about using a safe `PATH`

3. **Use SysProcAttr to set up the child process**
  - Set `UseCgroupFD` to true and pass the cgroup file descriptor

>   - Set `Chroot` to the chroot jail directory (e.g., `/opt/jobroot`)

Reviewer 2: No need to worry about chroot. Feel free to omit to simplify and reduce scope.

Author: So I can just run as `nobody:nogroup` any command?

From the feedback I got about the denylist/allowlist, I had come up with this. 
I was thinking about implementing a chroot jail with limited binaries + deps.

Reviewer 2: No need to support chroot jail. For this exercise it is fine to run the command passed in verbatim without any extra handling or security considerations. All we are looking to see if that you can identify some of the risks that poses and document how to mitigate them in your design.

Author: OK I went ahead and just removed all references to it from the doc.

| `--cpu=500m`            | `cpu.max = 50000 100000`                 |
| `--cpu=max`             | `cpu.max = max 100000`                   |
| `--memory=268435456`    | `memory.max = 268435456`                 |
| `--io=low`              | `io.max = 8:0 rbps=1048576 wbps=1048576` |
| `--io=high`             | `io.max = 8:0 rbps=0 wbps=0`             |

### 4. `CLI` (JobCtl)

- Command line interface using [`spf13/cobra`](https://github.com/spf13/cobra)
- gRPC TLS client with `x509` cert loading
- Usage is listed above
- On `StreamOutput`, the CLI will read and when the end of the stream is reached, it will stop reading and exit. If the job is still running, it will continue to read in real-time until the job exits or the user interrupts the stream.
- The CLI will need to have a config to indicate the client `username` at a minimum. 

### 5. AuthN/Z
- The client must authenticate the server **and** the server must authenticate the client. This means that the client **and** the server must trust each other via CA's. For simplicity, the server will have the client's CA's when running.
- `CN` will be used for `<username>`

> - Process streaming or getting statuses, reading of any job will be limited to each user.

Reviewer 2: Can you help clarify the authorization scheme for me? 

From [above](https://github.com/bucknercd/jobworker/pull/1/files#diff-3dc5dd454e080eb849ee5efaf79df2585fbe0a06804d69249b4c81da05a63875R86-R89), the authorization scheme is said to be

> A user can **only** can perform operations such as stream output from any job as long as they have the job id 

Does that contradict what is being described here?

Author: No, I just didn't specifically address that aspect of things here. But, yes, in order to stream a `job id` will be needed.

Author: Will fix

|-----------|----------------------------|-----------------------------------|
| **Server** | - Loads **trusted client CA certificates** from a fixed location on disk.(`ca.crt`)<br>- Configured with `ClientAuth: RequireAndVerifyClientCert`.<br>- Verifies presented client cert chains to a trusted CA and is valid (expiry, key usage). | *Not applicable* — server only verifies client certs. |
| **CLI Client** | - Loads **server CA certificate** from fixed location on disk.(`ca.crt`)<br>- Uses this to verify the server’s certificate during TLS handshake. | - Loads **its own client certificate** (`.../bob/client.crt`) and private key (`.../bob/client.key`) from fixed, hardcoded paths.<br>- The CN in the cert acts as the `username` for AuthZ.<br>- Always uses the same keypair for all requests. |

**Notes:**
- All trust material is **static**
- `CN` in the client certificate = `username`
- Trust is based solely on local CA files.
##### NOTE: All lists will be hardcoded in the implementation
---
### Limited list of binaries for chroot jail
#### Will allow more in the future
```bash
/bin/ls
/bin/echo
/bin/cat
/bin/sleep
/bin/date
...
...
...
```

> - Will need to include the dependencies of these binaries as well

Reviewer 2: Does the allow list here still apply? Is this left over from the previous authorization scheme?

Author: Since I wanted to use a chroot jail, I will need a list of allowed binaries. This is not an allowlist like before but what binaries will actually live in the chroot jail where the commands will be run. I went this route since I got feedback about allowlist/denylists being easily bypassed.

Reviewer 2: As mentioned before I think chroot jail can be a future consideration and is not a requirement of this challenge.

Author: Ok. I will go with no chroot jail and just run everything as `nobody:nogroup`

| `StartJob(cmd []string, limits ResourceLimits)` | Generates an id and creates, then starts a job with cgroup limits via `joblib`. Adds it to its internal job mapping. Returns a jobid. |
| `StopJob(id string)`                         | Stops job via `joblib`. Makes sure all cgroup resources are released and all processes terminated. |
| `GetStatus(id string)`                       | Returns Job status protobuf response via `joblib`. |
| `StreamOutput(id string, streamStderr bool)` | Streams output (stdout or stderr) to the client in `chunk size` (from config). The default is to stream stdout. All messages will be retrieved until the the file descriptor(s) are closed. |

#### Notes
- A `JobController` will be implemented to handle `StartJob` and `StreamOutput` as these will get their own dedicated goroutines.
- The `cmd` parameter is actually composed of an executable part plus its argument(s). For example when `cmd` is "ls -lah". The executable part is `ls` and the argument is `-lah`. These are passed in separately to the `joblib` underlying package.
- Location of job output: `/var/lib/jobs/<jobid>/(stdout|stderr).log`

> - Location of job metadata: `/var/lib/jobs/<jobid>/metadata`

Reviewer 2: Storing metadata on disk is totally fine, but, did you consider keeping this information in memory? Would doing so simplify your implementation any?

Author: This would simplify the design, yes as I wouldn't have to write any of this to disk and also maintain synced with whats in memory. I also would not have to worry about any case of trying to have any metadata persistence as the only thing that would persist would be the stdout and stderr. 

The con is a server restart would wipe all job metadata which is perfectly fine for this evaluation. I will update the DESIGN.md accordingly.

  - Structure of metadata
  ```
  {
    "user": "bob",
    "role": "admin|user",
    "group": "team1",
    "status": "Exited",
    "exit_code": 0
  }
  ```

- Statuses
```bash
    StatusUnknown
    StatusRunning
    StatusExited
    StatusStopped
    StatusFailed
```
- Config
### Note: These will be hardcoded for simplicity but would normally be in a config file or env vars
```bash
    # streaming output
    streamOutputChunkSizeKB = 32

    # general
    jobsLocation = `/var/lib/jobs`
```
- Job ID
  - 8 character length alphanumeric ascii string.
  - The first 3 characters are the **last 3 characters** of a base36-encoded Unix timestamp.
  - Lexicographically sortable 
  - This protects against collisions and is user friendly.
```go
func generateID() string {
	// First 3 chars from time (sortable)
	now := time.Now().Unix()
	timePart := strconv.FormatInt(now, 36) // base36 is compact
	if len(timePart) > 3 {
		timePart = timePart[len(timePart)-3:] // last 3 chars
	}

	// Last 5 chars random

> 	randomPart := randomString(5)

Reviewer 3: 1. How are you generating these 5 bytes of random (what is the source)?
2. Isn't 5 bytes too small? Seems like this is something an attacker could brute force.

Can you provide your reasoning for this scheme to generate IDs?

Author: For the purpose of this challenge I wanted to have the `jobid` be short for the end user. Ideally I wanted to use something like `UUIDv7`.

1. Note: Im using the `crypto/rand` package which automatically seeds the rand function.
```go
import (
	"crypto/rand"
	"math/big"
	"strings"
)

const letters = "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz0123456789"

func randomString(n int) string {
	var sb strings.Builder
	for i := 0; i < n; i++ {
		num, _ := rand.Int(rand.Reader, big.NewInt(int64(len(letters))))
		sb.WriteByte(letters[num.Int64()])
	}
	return sb.String()
}
```
2. I believe 5 bytes of random is too small yes. I could extend this to 10 bytes of random to make it more robust.

Author: I will make it as follows:
- 6 bytes to indicate part of timestamp so its sortable
- 10 bytes randomness

Reviewer 2: You may use a UUID package if you wish instead of hand rolling your identifier.

Author: Ok will use UUIDv7

|   stdout/stderr  |
|   written to     |
|   disk file      |
+------------------+
         |
         v
+------------------------------+
|   On client StreamOutput()   |
|   request:                   |
|                              |
|   - create new Go channel    |
|   - start goroutine:         |
|     read from file           |
|     and send to channel      |
+------------------------------+
         |
         v
+------------------+
|   Go channel     |  (1 per client)
+------------------+
         |
         v
+------------------+
|  gRPC Stream     |  <- StreamOutput()
|   Response       |
+------------------+
         |
         v
+------------------+
|     Client       |
+------------------+
```
##### `StreamOutput`
- **Initial note**: The majority of this logic will be implemented in the `joblib` but `StreamOutput` will have this functionality.
- `StreamOutput` will **only** stream from job output that is written to disk. Stdout and Stderr will be written to disk by JobController via `joblib` itself upon invocation of `StartJob`. A closed file descriptor (stdout/stderr) will signify the end of the file/stream. An advisory will be sent to client when this occurs.

> - Each `StreamOutput` call spawns a goroutine that reads from the persisted log file and pushes content to a **client-specific Go channel**, which is then streamed via gRPC. (**joblib**)

Reviewer 2: What benefit does the channel provide if this is already running in a dedicated goroutine?

Author: Good point. The extra per-client channel doesn’t add value here since each gRPC StreamOutput already runs in its own goroutine. I’ll remove the intermediate channel and have the handler read the log file and Send() directly on the stream. We’ll rely on gRPC flow control for backpressure and stream.Context() for cancellation (ie. client Ctrl-C).

-  `Replay`: A client will be able to stream any output of a job even after the job has exited. (**joblib**)

##### StreamOutput Requirements
- Clients stream from the **beginning of the output**
- Support **multiple clients** connecting at different times.
- Avoid race conditions when jobs are writing and clients are reading.
- Designed for **CLI usage** via a single `StreamOutput` gRPC call.

### 2. `joblib` (Core Library)

| Function             | Description                                             |
| -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------- |
| `Start()`            | Starts a process via setpgid(), takes in an executable and args. Sets job status, cgroup limits and executes the process. See **Start** for details.  It also sets up the process' stdout and stderr and to be read from and written to files on disk. These file names should map up to the job id assigned and also on disk as well. Then wait for job to finish, or be terminated, get its exit status and set it job status as well.

> | `Stop()`             | Sends `SIGTERM` to the process group for a graceful shutdown. If the process is still running after the timeout, it writes `1` to `/sys/fs/cgroup/jobs/<jobid>/cgroup.kill` to forcefully terminate it and remove the cgroup.

Reviewer 2: Feel free to omit graceful termination to simplify things.

Author: Ok. Understood. I'm switching `StreamOutput` to an event‑driven tail: no polling. The handler reads to EOF, then blocks on `inotify` for the log file. On events it resumes reading and sends chunks directly on the gRPC stream.

Reviewer 2: Was this reply intended for another thread? I was referring to dropping SIGTERM and relying solely on cgroup.kill here to cut scope.

Author: Yes. Another thread for how to discover new data without polling.

Author: I updated the section to go straight to `cgroup.kill` and omitted the `SIGTERM` part

| `Status()`           | Return the job status response 
| `Stdout()`           | Returns a buffered channel(1024) which is filled with data previously written to disk
| `Stderr()`           | Returns a buffered channel(1024) which is filled with data previously written to disk
| `GetStatusResponse()`| Returns a structured status response with job ID, current state (running, exited, etc.), and exit code (if available). Used by both CLI and gRPC server.

#### Details

##### Start (Launching an actual process)
- The `Start()` function will take in a command and its arguments, along with resource limits. It will then:
  - Generate a unique job ID
  - Create a new process using `exec.Command()` with the following attributes:
    - `SysProcAttr.Setpgid` = true (start as its own process group leader).
    - `SysProcAttr.Pdeathsig` = SIGKILL (if the supervisor dies, the child is killed).
    - `SysProcAttr.Ptrace` = true (child will stop on post-exec SIGTRAP).
    - `SysProcAttr.Credential` = {Uid,Gid} set to `nobody` for normal users or `1000:1000` for `admin`.
  - Create a cgroup for the job and apply resource limits

>   - move the process to the cgroup by writing its PID to `/sys/fs/cgroup/jobs/<jobid>/cgroup.procs`

Reviewer 2: I'm not certain that this mechanism will achieve the desired goal of avoid cgroup races. Are there any other ways that you can think of the achieve the desired behavior?

Author: Ok in order to avoid cgroup races, I could use `syscalls` to `fork` + `exec` and swiftly move the child `pid` into its proper cgroup while the kernel is still handling the `exec` syscall not **after** userland execution has already begun.  This should close that window between `exec` returning and placing `pid` in cgroup.

Reviewer 2: Is there any way to launch the child process directly in the cgroup? That seems like the most secure way to avoid any opportunity to escape the cgroup and enforced limits.

Author: I can do`SYS_CLONE` using  `CLONE_INTO_CGROUP` but it will be lower level as `SysprocAttrs` doesn't support this behavior yet.

Author: So I will rewrite the logic as:
- setup stdout/stderr with dup2
-  setup cgroup clone args
- use syscall to call the `SYS_CLONE3` and `CLONE_INTO_CGROUP` flag
- the child process will be placed in a chroot jail
- its permissions dropped to nobody,nogroup
-  set the death signal via `prctl`
- reap the process

**Note** 
I can't use a higher level construct as I need access to the `SYS_CLONE3`, `CLONE_INTO_CGROUP` syscall, arg.
Please let me know if this is ok

Reviewer 2: Are you sure that Go and `SysprocAttrs` don't support this functionality?

Author: Oh. I think it does actually. Not full clone args support but what we need to do this yes. This will simplify the code quite a bit so its not so low level. 

I will implement this same flow but with Go's higher constructs.
@rosstimothy

    - Note: The major(8) and minor(0) will try to be determined based on device where the root(/) directory is mounted on.
3. After the process has been launched, but paused by `SIGSTOP`, obtain its `pid` and write it out to `cgroup.procs`
  - This will add the process to the cgroup and apply the limits.
4. When the process exits, delete the cgroup directory `/sys/fs/cgroup/jobs/<jobid>`.
5. If the process is still running, write `1` to `/sys/fs/cgroup/jobs/<jobid>/cgroup.kill` to forcefully kill the process and remove the cgroup.

### 3. `server` (gRPC API)

- Implements:
  - `StartJob` (takes command, resource limits)
  - `StopJob`
  - `GetStatus`
  - `StreamOutput` (streaming gRPC)
- Secures:
  - mTLS setup using TLS 1.3
  - authorization done via CA. O=admin|user

### 4. `CLI` (JobCtl)

- Command line interface using [`spf13/cobra`](https://github.com/spf13/cobra)
- gRPC TLS client with `x509` cert loading
- Usage is listed above
- On `StreamOutput`, the CLI will read in chunks of `streamOutputChunkSizeKB` and when the end of the stream is reached, it will stop reading and exit. If the job is still running, it will continue to read in real-time until the job exits.

> ### 5. AuthN/Z

Reviewer 2: Overall you've done a good job coming up with a mechanism to identify users and determine what they have access to. I question whether the command lists is a more complicated authorization scheme than is needed for this challenge. It will require parsing the provided commands and arguments, and could be worked around by a clever user. 

Is there any other scheme you can think of that is both simpler, and still allows for admins to perform some actions and users to perform other actions?

Reviewer 3: I second this. If you really want to implement this scheme, you can do it.

However both @rosstimothy and I want to save you some time. Feel free to implement a much simpler RBAC scheme.

Author: Yes.  I will remove the allowlist entirely and just have a denylist for all users. Only difference is how they are run. `nobody` for normal user and `1000:1000` for `admin` users.

                                           |
                                 gRPC Handler + AuthN
                                           |
                             +-------------v--------------+
                             |     Manager Library        |
                             |     Job Controller         |
                             +------+------+--------------+
                                           | 
                             +-------------v-------------+
                             |    Job Library (low level)|
                             |    Core Job functionality |
                             +------+------------+-------+
                                    |            |
                           +--------v-----+    +-v-----------+
                           | Process Ctl  |    | Cgroup Ctl  |
                           |(Start/Stop/  |    | Limit       |
                           |Status/Stream)|    |CPU/Memory/IO|
                           +--------------+    +-------------+
```
---

## Scope

### Included

- Start/stop/query status of arbitrary processes.
- Stream process stdout/stderr. Data will persist across server reboots.

> - Semi-persistent storage of job stream info. A TTL (time to live) for exited process will be established

Reviewer 2: Let's omit the TTL and keep all job information for the life of the server.

Author: will do

- **Job isolation**
  - Cgroups used for resource control (custom implementation)
  - Each job gets its own cgroup directory
  - **Only** users that belong to the same group as the group that created the job id will be able to obtain any data at all from the said job.
- **DDOS**
  - I will not implement a rate limiting middleware but am aware one would be beneficial to have. This would prevent resource exhaustion. For example, making many connections and just leaving all of them open by starting a TCP handshake but never closing it.
- **Secure Commands Allowlist**
  - In order to prevent a user from destroying or exploiting the system there **must** be a command allowlist, for users of type `user`, and a denylist for users of type `admin`.
- **Resource Exhaustion**
  - To prevent resource exhaustion, launching a job and streaming output will each have a goroutine, apart from initial gRPC server, so they can be working asynchronously. There will be limits with regards to the amount of `jobs` , which have a one to one mapping to goroutines so as to prevent a goroutine explosion or a fork bomb.

>   - The stdout.log and stderr.log files will be limited (refer to limits below) ie. 100MB, 20MB

Reviewer 2: One of the requirements is that _all_ output is consumed. By enforcing these limits I don't think that requirement can be satisfied.

Author: will do

  - Disk usage will be limited as well (refer to limits below) ie. 80%
  - Memory will be limited (refer to limits below) ie. 8GB
- **Logging**
  - The server will maintain logs to disk to keep track of all events and to see who has tried to do what to be able to have visibility 
---

## CLI Examples
### Offset Notes
- The `--offset` argument specifies the `chunk number`. The **actual** byte position is `offset x chunk size`. For example, if `chunk size` is `32KB` then `--offset=2` means that the **actual** byte position is `64KB`
- If `--offset` is **not** specified , it will default to **0**
### Tail Note

> - If `--tail` is **not** specified, the server streams from the requested offset until **EOF**, emitting one or more messages (each up to `streamOutputChunkSizeKB`). If the file is smaller than a chunk, you’ll just get the smaller, final chunk.

Reviewer 2: Let's simplify this to always tail from the beginning of the output, no need to make clients aware of offsets or supporting multiple modes.

Author: will do

```bash
# Start a job
jobctl start --cmd "ls / -lah"

# Start a job with resource limits
jobctl start \
  --cmd="echo hello world" \
  --cpu=500m \
  --mem=100M \
  --io=low

# Stream the output (stdout) (currently running or terminated but within TTL)
jobctl stream --id=xxxxxxxx

# Stream the output (stderr)
jobctl stream --id=xxxxxxxx --stderr

# Stream the last output of a currently running job (stdout)
jobctl stream --id=xxxxxxxx --tail 

# Stream from offset 10 (chunk-based; ie. 10 × 32KB = 320KB into file)
jobctl stream --id=xxxxxxxx --offset 10

# Get job status
jobctl status --id=xxxxxxxx

# Stop a job
jobctl stop --id xxxxxxxx
```

---
## Component Overview

### 1. `joblib/manager` (High Level Library)

| Function                                        | Description                                             |
| ----------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------- |

> | `StartJob(cmd []string, limits ResourceLimits)` | Performs resource exhaustion checks. Generates an id and creates, then starts a job with cgroup limits, or without, via `joblib`. Adds it to its internal job mapping. Returns a jobid or a resource exhaustion message |

Reviewer 2: > then starts a job with cgroup limits, or without

One of the requirements of the challenge is that _all_ jobs have limits enforced.

Author: will do

| `StopJob(id string)`                         | Stops job via `joblib`. Records a TTL (time to live) indicating when the job's resources (logs, metadata) should be kept around for. Important for reading Stdout and Stderr from exited job(s) |

> | `GetStatus(id string)`                       | Returns Job status protobuf response via `joblib`. |

Reviewer 2: Again, please drop the TTL and keep job resources for the entire duration of the process.

Author: will do

> | `StreamOutput(id string, streamStderr bool, offset uint64, tailOutput bool)` | Streams output (stdout or stderr) to the client in chunks size `32KB` (from config). The default is to stream stdout. The client should provide an offset. The offset state is handled by the client. The server does not handle the offset. The offset is in increments of the `chunk size`  |

Reviewer 2: Again, please drop the offset and support for tail or oneshot mode.

Author: will do

#### Notes
- A `JobController` will be implemented to handle `StartJob` and `StreamOutput` as these will get their own dedicated goroutines. The amount of goroutines will be limited. This is so the server won't be overwhelmed by requests.
- TTL (Time to Live) will be a Unix epoch timestamp. Eviction time, or the Unix epoch timestamp in the future, will be 8 hours from when job is run.
- The `cmd` parameter is actually composed of an executable part plus its argument(s). For example when `cmd` is "ls -lah". The executable part is `ls` and the argument is `-lah`. These are passed in separately to the `joblib` underlying package.
- Location of job output: `/var/lib/jobs/<jobid>/(stdout|stderr).log`
- Location of job metadata: `/var/lib/jobs/<jobid>/metadata`
  - Structure of metadata
  ```
  {
    "user": "bob",
    "role": "admin|user",
    "group": "team1",
    "status": "Exited",
    "exit_code": 0
  }
  ```

- Statuses
```bash
    StatusUnknown
    StatusRunning
    StatusExited
    StatusStopped
    StatusFailed
```
- Limits

>   - These are set via a config. An example is provided below

Reviewer 2: For simplicity, feel free to hardcode the limits instead of consuming them from an external config source.

Author: Will hardcode if a config becomes unwieldy. Also, since I will use cgroups  for all jobs , I will let cgroups take care of limiting. So many of these setting will go away.

    maxJobsPerNode = 8 // limit the amount of goroutines 
    maxProcsPerJob = 12 // limit the amount of child procs
    maxMemoryPerNodeGB = 8 // limit RAM
    maxDiskPercentagePerNode = 80 // limit disk usage (root partition)

    # truncating stdout/stderr files
    maxStdoutFileSizeMB = 100
    maxStderrFileSizeMB = 20
    truncatePercentage = 10

    # streaming output
    streamOutputChunkSizeKB = 32

    # general
    jobsLocation = `/var/lib/jobs`
```
- Job ID
  - 8 character length alphanumeric ascii string.
  - The first 3 characters are the **last 3 characters** of a base36-encoded Unix timestamp.
  - Lexicographically sortable 
  - This protects against collisions and is user friendly.
```go
func generateID() string {
	// First 3 chars from time (sortable)
	now := time.Now().Unix()
	timePart := strconv.FormatInt(now, 36) // base36 is compact
	if len(timePart) > 3 {
		timePart = timePart[len(timePart)-3:] // last 3 chars
	}

	// Last 5 chars random
	randomPart := randomString(5)

	return timePart + randomPart
}
```

- TTL file location: `/var/lib/jobs/<jobid>/ttl`
- TTL file contents will be very simple. Just an int64 binary representation.

#### Details

##### StartJob

> - Checks disk space on partition where `/var/lib` is at (I am assuming root `/`). We need to have 15% of that partition available

Reviewer 2: Where does this requirement come from? Why 15%? Is this something that could be omitted for simplicity?

Author: will fix

- Generate unique job id
- JobController via `joblib` creates a job
  - with limits or without limits
- write job metadata out to a file
- return jobid

#### StopJob
- Terminates the job via `joblib` if it is still running and writes a Unix epoch timestamp as its TTL. 

#### StreamOutput Visual Logic
```bash
+------------------+
|  Jobcontroller   |
|   `joblib`       |
|  (writes to disk)|
+------------------+
         |
         v
+------------------+
|   stdout/stderr  |
|   written to     |
|   disk file      |
+------------------+
         |
         v
+------------------------------+
|   On client StreamOutput()   |
|   request:                   |
|                              |
|   - create new Go channel    |
|   - start goroutine:         |
|     read from file           |
|     and send to channel      |
+------------------------------+
         |
         v
+------------------+
|   Go channel     |  (1 per client)
+------------------+
         |
         v
+------------------+
|  gRPC Stream     |  <- StreamOutput()
|   Response       |
+------------------+
         |
         v
+------------------+
|     Client       |
+------------------+
```

> ##### `StreamOutput`

Reviewer 2: What happens if the entire file is consumed and the process is still running and might write more output to the file?

Author: I will add to the doc that when a job is terminated, a literal  `EOF` will be written to the job itself indicating that there is no more output. When the client reads, it will try to read in chunks and if there is no `EOF` on said logfile then it will wait for more streaming data until it hits a timeout (clientside). I will indicate this in the document.

Author: Update: I will drop the clientside timeout and drop the use of literal `EOF`. I will just rely on closing the file descriptor. When the file descriptor has been closed, the client will receive an end of stream notification.

Reviewer 2: I wasn't so much asking how you would handle things when a process terminated. I was trying to figure out how you would handle discovering new output. Per the challenge requirements:

> Discovering new output should be efficient, avoid busy-waiting or polling.

If the entire content of the file is consumed, but the process is still running, how will you efficiently discover new output?

Author: Ah yes. I updated the doc, but not here. It  will, after reading to EOF, block on `inotify` and resume reading; no busy polling.

| `Stop()`             | Get PGID via getpgid() and send KILL signal to it. If there is a cgroup created, delete it. Set job status.
| `Status()`           | Return the job status response from 
| `Stdout()`           | Returns a buffered channel(1024) which is filled with data previously written to disk
| `Stderr()`           | Returns a buffered channel(1024) which is filled with data previously written to disk
| `GetStatusResponse()`| Returns a structured status response with job ID, current state (running, exited, etc.), and exit code (if available). Used by both CLI and gRPC server.

#### Details

##### Start (Launching an actual process)
- Job status will be set to running
- If a particular job has limits, then a call to the `cgroups` library will be made to create the needed cgroup to limit the process' CPU, Memory or Disk IO.

> - The process is setup by using `setpgid` and setting `uid` and `gid` to `nobody` for normal users. `uid` and `gid` should be `1000` when running as an admin user. The process uses `setpgid` so that it can clean up children processes later if it needs to.

Reviewer 2: What guarantees do we have that the child didn't change it's process group? Is there a more reliable way to terminate child processes?

Author: Since I will now use cgroups on ALL processes I will use `cgroups.kill` and before launching a process I will set pdeath signal so that the child process will get a SIGKILL if the parent dies.

> - The PID of this process is added to its cgroup, if the limits were provided. (This **must** be done in this order)

Reviewer 2: Does this imply that the process is added to the cgroup _after_ it has started? If so, doesn't that provide a window of time for a malicious process to evade limits altogether?

Author: I will start a process with ptrace option so that its not running, move in cgroup, and then detach ptrace and let it run

> - The process' stdout and stderr will be captured and written to stdout and stderr files and any metadata by the root process itself via cmd.StdoutPipe() and cmd.StderrPipe(). The appropriate metadata is written to its location in `/var/lib/jobs/<jobid>/...` as well.

Reviewer 2: Are pipes needed to write the output to files? Can you think of a way to do this without copying in goroutines?

Author: I don't need pipes, if this was C I'd just use `dup2` to make stdout and stderr of a process go directly to files. There is a way to do this in go. I'd just open these files up in APPEND mode, get a file descriptor and then just set cmd.stdout and cmd.stderr to point to these.   Ill update the comment.

- `cgroups`: Actually creates and deletes cgroups v2 limits (implementation described below)
- `resources`: A helper package to abstract away all the many low level resource requirements (TBD if needed)

#### Cgroups

##### Notes
- Cgroups v2 will be used. Kernel version 5.2+ is required for this functionality
- Upon job termination the Job Controller via `joblib` will cleanup the cgroup files

#### Details
1. Create a custom cgroup directory `/sys/fs/cgroup/jobs/<jobid>`
  - Create `/sys/fs/cgroup/jobs` if it doesnt exist yet
2. Inside  `<jobid>` directory:
  - set `memory.max` in bytes (one token)
  - set `cpu.max` to "<quota> <period>" where they are in microseconds. (2 tokens)
    - cpu.max is written as "<quota> <period>" in microseconds. Typical period is 100000µs (100ms), and quota ≤ period.
  - set `io.max` to "<device> <rbps> <wbps>" (3 tokens). An example: `8:0 rbps=1048576 wbps=1048576`
    - Note: The major(8) and minor(0) will try to be determined based on device where the root(/) directory is mounted on.

> 3. After the process has been launched obtain its `pid` and write it out to `cgroup.procs` as text

Reviewer 2: As mentioned above, the order of events here is problematic.

Author: Will fix
